You guys come back to the course.
So in this lecture we're going to talk about speed and how important that is to your client relationship.
Now when I talk about speed I'm not actually talking about time line.
That's kind of obvious right.
You don't want to take years to get something done.
When I talk about speed I'm actually talking about responsiveness speed meaning from the point at which
they contact you how long does it take you to respond and what are you in the habit of doing with regard
to the response time.
Now if you didn't obviously know this before responsiveness is very important not only to closing deals
but keeping your client happy a client that receives prompt responses is much less likely to be anxious
or upset about things along the road.
What are the bigger mistakes you see.
A lot of times with development businesses is that people are really on the ball when they're trying
to close a client and as soon as they close a client they kind of relax they kind of allow large windows
of time to pass before they respond.
They often think that's a strategy for setting the tone which is something that we talked about in a
previous lecture but that's not actually the case.
We're not actually setting the tone you're changing the tone in general if you're responsive that helps
you in many many different ways.
A lot of times you have clients that blow up and they're not blowing up for any specific reason.
It's a cumulative effect because they feel as if their needs are not being met.
Now at the risk of sounding redundant I want to reemphasize a point I had made previously in the course.
Clients are anxious creatures.
They are a species that is constantly nervous about everything.
The reason why this is is because they generally fall under three categories small business owners entrepreneurs
which are often the same thing or account managers or people who are in charge of procurement at large
companies.
In all three of those scenarios they do not have money that they can lose.
One might lose a job another might lose a business and another might lose their business and their reputation.
So regardless of how healthy the project is they always want to feel as if you are constantly there.
The idea and the feeling that if they have a problem and it's going to take a long time to hear anything
back from you that's a bad thing.
That gives him a lot of time to worry and a lot of time to make a lot of false assumptions.
Now invariably if you have a slow response time that is almost always going to be read from the client
side as something terrible is happening.
You know the ship is sinking.
There's obviously something wrong that the other person is hiding from me.
Even in the best scenario they're going to assume that maybe the project is going fine.
They're just going assume that you don't know the answer to what they told you.
They might assume that you are not as integrated in their project or as knowledgeable as their project.
As you said you are either way that a Rhodes trust it erodes your ability to project yourself as authority
and it creates a very problematic relationship.
So get used to responding as quickly as possible.
The best way of getting around this is you know if someone asks you a dense question that requires a
response and requires research and requires collaboration with your other contractors or other employees
don't feel as if you have to answer that question now.
You don't to stop at dinner and go out there and research the question and send them a five point answer
what you need to simply do is let them know you are there and let them know that you aware that they
need that information.
That is it.
You can literally just respond give them your first impression of the answer and say but I'm going to
respond with a much more comprehensive and a much more correct answer and then give them a timeline.
That's the easiest way of doing it.
Just let them know hey I'm here I've heard you.
I'm going to respond and then you can go on being as unresponsive as you want.
It doesn't actually change really anything.
Get used to tying yourself to your phone.
If that's not something you're used to it is something that's going to help you immensely when it comes
to managing clients.
Check your phone often.
You don't necessarily have to send text messages yourself or have pop up notifications but set your
mail application so that it automatically checks your mail often for you.
Maybe even set keywords in case clients e-mail you.
You do get a notification if you're going away for a certain period of time let them know ahead of time
and if you don't do that or you don't feel as if it's necessary at the absolute minimum set an auto
responder set the little message that gets sent and says you're out of the office you're unavailable.
Just so they know this is not me being irresponsible.
This is not me hiding a horrible fire we've made in the kitchen.
This is me being gone.
I can't help it.
Now it's OK to lag during certain times that you've previously established you're unavailable.
Typically for me I don't obviously respond on Saturdays and Sundays as quickly as I would on week days
and I've actually gotten in the habit of setting the tone that way in that if you send me a message
on Friday night you're not going to hear anything until Monday morning.
That is perfectly acceptable.
That's reasonable.
But the point here is to be consistent.
You can't respond on Saturdays for a year and in year two you decide you're not going to set.
You're not going to apply on Saturdays.
People get used to their their basic expectations.
People get used to the way you treat them.
They're going expect that in the future.
So that's basically it.
It's a very powerful communication technique.
It's a very powerful messaging technique if they message you just let them know you acknowledge it give
them some impression of what's going on.
Tell them you'll get back to them.
Then go along and be as flaky as you want to be.
Take as long as you planned on taking anyway just let them know you are there and give them a timeline.
Again it all kind of relates to being confident and telling them you know I'm aware this is happening
and this is my timeline for getting you an answer.
That's all they need to settle their anxiety any questions posed in the group discussion.
Otherwise in the next lecture.